# Assignment 10

True/False questions, not to turn in:

- If $p > 2$ is a prime, and if $2p+1$ and $9p+4$ are both prime, then $\left(\frac{2p+1}{9p+4}\right) = 1$. (Make sure you also have proof one way or the other)
- If $p > 2$ and $q = p + 2$ are both prime, then $\left(\frac{p}{q}\right) = \left(\frac{q}{p}\right)$.
- The product of two "positive residues" is a "positive residue".
- Let $a$ be relatively prime to the prime $p$. For each "negative residue" $k$ compute $a\cdot k$, and denote by $g'$ the number of those products that result in "positive residues". Then $g'=g$.
- Let $a$ be relatively prime to the prime $p$. For each "positive residue" $k$ compute $a\cdot k$, and denote by $g'$ the number of those products that result in "positive residues". Then $g'=g$.

Questions to turn in:

1. Using Euler's identity, we determined the quadratic character for $-1$, namely the Law of Quadratic Reciprocity for $\left(\frac{-1}{p}\right)$. Prove the same result by computing $g$ instead, and using Gauss's Lemma.
2. During the proof that $T(a,p)=g\bmod 2$, we used that $a$ is an odd number. What happens when $a$ is even? Can you demonstrate an example with $p$ odd, $a$ even, where $T(a,p)\neq g\bmod 2$?
3. Demonstrate that $T(p, q) + T(q, p) = \frac{p-1}{2}\times \frac{q-1}{2}$ by computing both sides directly, for $p = 13$ and $q = 17$.
4. The Law of Quadratic Reciprocity can help us determine if the equation $x^2+bx+c = 0$ has a solution modulo $p$. The equation can be rewritten as:

    $$\left(x+\frac{b}{2}\right)^2 = \frac{b^2-4c}{4}$$

    So it will only have a solution if the quantity $b^2-4c$ is a square modulo $p$. Use this on the equation $x^2+13x+4 = 0$ to find: At least two primes $p$ for which there is a solution and at least two primes $p$ for which there is not. For the primes for which there is a solution, find it using the above formula. Note that for each prime the equation should have 2 solutions, so you will be finding in total 4 solutions, 2 each for each of the two primes.
5. Compute $\left(\frac{7}{17}\right)$ in a number of different ways:
    a. Computing all the squares $\bmod 17$.
    b. Using Euler's Identity and computing $7^8\bmod 17$.
    c. Using Gauss's Lemma and computing $g$.
    d. Using Eisenstein's Lemma and computing $T(7, 17)$.
    e. Using the Laws of Quadratic Reciprocity to reduce the symbol to smaller symbols.

    You should of course get the same result in all cases.
