# Assignment 9

True/False questions, not to turn in:

- The order of an element modulo $n$ is always $1$ or an even number.
- Let $p > 2$ be a prime. A polynomial of odd degree over $\mathbb{Z}_p$ necessarily has a root.
- If a polynomial $f(x)$ with integer coefficients has no solutions modulo a prime $p$, then it also has no solution modulo other primes.
- If $\bar a$ is a primitive root modulo a prime $p$, then $\bar a$ is also a primitive root modulo other primes.
- If $\bar a = \bar b ^ 2$ then $a$ cannot be a primitive root.

Questions to turn in:

1. Find a primitive root modulo $p=53$ using the techniques we learned in class. Use it to find at least 2 more primitive roots.
2. In normal calculus we have the formula: $\log_a(c) = \frac{\log_b(c)}{\log_b(a)}$. Is the same true when discussing discrete logarithms in $\mathbb{Z}_p$? i.e. when $a$, $b$ are primitive roots modulo $p$, and $\bar c$ is a nonzero element, is it the case that $\log_b(c) = \log_a(c)\log_b(a)$? Either prove or provide a counterexample.
3. Suppose that $f\colon\mathbb{Z}_p^* \to \mathbb{Z}_{p-1}$ is a well-defined, 1-1 function from the set of nonzero residues modulo $p$ to the set of residues modulo $p-1$ that has the property that $f(xy) = f(x) + f(y)$ for all $x,y\in\mathbb{Z}_p^*$. Show that it is in fact a discrete logarithm function for some primitive root. (All discrete logarithms would have those properties). Here are some steps to help you:
    - Show there must be an $a$ such that $f(a) = 1$.
    - Show that $a$ is a primitive root, i.e. that the order of $a$ is $p-1$. The function $f$ and its properties can help you with that.
    - Show that $f$ equals the discrete logarithm with base $a$.
4. Illustrate the Diffie-Hellman protocol for $p=53$, using the primitive root you found in question 1. You will need to use two randomly selected numbers between $1$ and $51 = 53-2$, use the numbers $10$ and $14$. What is the secret shared key in this instance, and what are the messages that Alice and Bob exchange?
5. According to our theory, the polynomial $x^{13}-1$ would have exactly $13$ roots in $\mathbb{Z}_{53}$ (make sure you understand why). In other words, there are exactly $13$ elements in $\mathbb{Z}_{53}$ such that $x^{13} = 1$. Find those elements. Here are some steps to help you:
    - Find one such element that is not 1. Our technique for finding a primitive root should help.
    - Try powers of that element. Explain why they would also have this property.
